All strikes and terminations can be appealed if the creator believes that there was an error, and our teams will re-review the decision.
To do that, we combine the power of advanced machine learning systems and our community itself to flag potentially problematic content.
Is there a way for the broader community to flag harmful content?
The YouTube community also plays an important role in flagging content they think is inappropriate.
How does YouTube develop new policies and update existing ones?
Each of our policies is carefully thought through so that they are consistent, well-informed and can be applied to content from around the world.
NGOs also receive occasional online training on YouTube policies.
Participants receive training on YouTube policies and have a direct path of communication with our Trust & Safety specialists.
Resources       Learn more about Community Guidelines strikes        Appeal a Community Guidelines strike        
Age-restricting content
Sometimes content doesn't violate our Community Guidelines but may not be appropriate for viewers under 18 years of age.
We developed the YouTube Trusted Flagger programme to provide robust content reporting processes to non-governmental organisations (NGOs) with expertise in a policy area and government agencies.
Community Guidelines strikes
If our reviewers decide that content violates our Community Guidelines, we remove the content and send a notice to the creator.
They're developed in consultation with a wide range of external industry and policy experts, as well as YouTube Creators.
After one warning, we'll issue a Community Guidelines strike to the channel and the account will have temporary restrictions including not being allowed to upload videos, live streams or stories for a one-week period.
If you see content that you think violates the Community Guidelines, you can use our flagging feature to submit content for review.
In these cases, our review team will place an age restriction on the video so that it will not be visible to viewers under 18 years of age, logged-out users or to those who have Restricted mode enabled.
How does YouTube identify content that violates the Community Guidelines?
With hundreds of hours of new content uploaded to YouTube every minute, we use a combination of people and machine learning to detect problematic content at scale.
